feat: Release 1.17 (#166)
cdr/docs: environments/autostart.md

---
title: "Autostart"
description: Learn how to configure automated environment rebuilds.
---

Coder [automatically turns off idle
environments](../admin/environment-management/shutdown.md) to help manage
resource expenditure. Typically, this means environments turn off overnight and
remain offline until a rebuild is requested. With Autostart, rebuilds may be
automatically requested at a time that best suits your workflow. You can expect
your environments to be ready for you at the start of each work day.

## Criteria for Autostart

Your environment must meet the following criteria for you to use Autostart:

1. You've [set the Autostart time and selected
   environments](#enabling-autostart) to be started automatically at that time.

1. Your environments are off at the Autostart time (Autostart won't work if your
   environments are on to prevent the possibility of triggering a rebuild while
   you're working).

1. Your environment must be active. We define *inactive* environments as those

>    that haven't been opened within the last five days.

Reviewer: The phrasing of criteria here feels a bit strange. It makes Autostart appear like a more difficult to use feature than it is IMO

Author: Could be adjusted to:

```md
## Triggers

Autostart triggers for environments when the following are met:

1. ...
1. ...
1. ...
```

---
title: "Autostart"
description: Learn how to configure automated environment rebuilds.
---

Coder [automatically turns off idle
environments](../admin/environment-management/shutdown.md) to help manage
resource expenditure. Typically, this means environments turn off overnight and
remain offline until a rebuild is requested. With Autostart, rebuilds may be
automatically requested at a time that best suits your workflow. You can expect
your environments to be ready for you at the start of each work day.

## Criteria for Autostart

Your environment must meet the following criteria for you to use Autostart:

1. You've [set the Autostart time and selected
   environments](#enabling-autostart) to be started automatically at that time.

1. Your environments are off at the Autostart time (Autostart won't work if your
   environments are on to prevent the possibility of triggering a rebuild while
   you're working).

1. Your environment must be active. We define *inactive* environments as those

>    that haven't been opened in five days or more.

Author: ```suggestion
   that haven't been opened within the last five days.
```

> > Coder may trigger Autostart up to five minutes before your scheduled time if
> your environments satisfy the Autostart requirements. This is to make sure that
> your environments are ready by your scheduled time.

Author: ```suggestion
> Coder may trigger Autostart up to five minutes before your scheduled time to ensure
all queued environments are ready by their scheduled time.
```

**I didn't check the line lengths locally, linting may be off**

## Enabling Autostart

1. Click on your avatar in the top-right and select **Account** in the drop-down
   menu.

> 2. Select the **Autostart** tab and set your desired Autostart time.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Autostart** tab and set your desired Autostart time.
```

    ![Set Autostart time](../assets/set_autostart_time.png)

> 3. Select the environments for which you want to enable Autostart and save.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Select the environments for which you want to enable Autostart and save.
```

3. Select the environments for which you want to enable Autostart and save.

    ![Select environments to
    Autostart](../assets/autostart_save_preferences.png)

### Enabling Autostart for New Environments

When creating a new environment, you set it to Autostart at your existing
Autostart time by checking the box labeled **Automatically turn this environment

> on....** Doing so saves you from returning to User Preferences at this point.

Author: Something along the lines of:

> To enable Autostart when creating a new environment, check the box labelled
*Automatically turn this environment on at (HH:mm)* (HH:mm will be display the
time you've set).

---
title: "Autostart"
description: Learn how to configure automated environment rebuilds.
---

Coder [automatically turns off idle
environments](../admin/environment-management/shutdown.md) to help manage
resource expenditure. Typically, this means environments turn off overnight and
remain offline until a rebuild is requested. With Autostart, rebuilds may be
automatically requested at a time that best suits your workflow. You can expect
your environments to be ready for you at the start of each work day.

## Criteria for Autostart

Your environment must meet the following criteria for you to use Autostart:

1. You've [set the Autostart time and selected
   environments](#enabling-autostart) to be started automatically at that time.

1. Your environments are off at the Autostart time (Autostart won't work if your
   environments are on to prevent the possibility of triggering a rebuild while
   you're working).

1. Your environment must be active. We define *inactive* environments as those
   that haven't been opened in five days or more.

> ### Caveat: Trigger Time
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Let's not call this a caveat and just put it in the above section as an extra detail
